*************************
v3.2.0 (X, X, 2026)
*************************

Enhancements
------------
* :py:func:`~rdtools.degradation.degradation_year_on_year` has new parameter ``multi_yoy``
  (default False) to trigger multiple YoY degradation calculations similar to Hugo Quest et
  al 2024 [1]_. In this mode, instead of a series of 1-year duration slopes, 2-year, 3-year etc
  slopes are also included.  calc_info['YoY_values'] returns a non-monotonic index
  in this mode due to multiple overlapping annual slopes.  (:issue:`394`)
* :py:func:`~rdtools.degradation.degradation_year_on_year` ``calc_info['YoY_values']``
  is now indexed by an integer position instead of by the right-endpoint timestamp.
  This is required to support the new ``multi_yoy=True`` mode, where multiple
  overlapping slopes can share the same right-endpoint timestamp.  The original
  timestamp-indexed behavior can be reconstructed using the new
  ``calc_info['YoY_times']`` DataFrame (for example,
  ``calc_info['YoY_values'].set_axis(calc_info['YoY_times']['dt_right'])``). (:issue:`394`)
* :py:func:`~rdtools.degradation.degradation_year_on_year` now returns
  ``calc_info['YoY_times']`` DataFrame with ``dt_right``, ``dt_center``, and ``dt_left``
  columns for each YoY slope.  (:issue:`459`)
* :py:func:`~rdtools.plotting.degradation_timeseries_plot` now supports ``multi_yoy=True``
  data. To avoid over-filtering, only slopes on the order of 2 years (731 days) or
  shorter are included in the center-labeled median.  (:issue:`394`) (:pull:`498`)
* :py:func:`~rdtools.plotting.degradation_timeseries_plot` refactored to do a rolling
  median, for all slopes whose center timestamp is inside the window.
  ``min_periods`` reduced to ``rolling_days//4``.
  (:issue:`455`) (:pull:`498`)
* Added ``min_periods_divisor`` argument to
  :py:func:`rdtools.plotting.degradation_timeseries_plot` to control the
  minimum number of observations required in each rolling window
  (``rolling_days // min_periods_divisor``). The current default of ``2``
  is preserved, and a ``FutureWarning`` is emitted when the default is
  used to signal that the default will change to ``4`` in a future major
  release, making the time-series plot more resilient to small data
  outages without losing fidelity. (:pull:`498`)
* :py:func:`~rdtools.plotting.degradation_summary_plots` ``detailed=True`` mode now
  properly handles points used odd vs even number of times (not just 0, 1, 2).
  (:issue:`394`)
* Added new example notebook ``docs/Multi-year_on_year_example.ipynb`` demonstrating the
  ``multi_yoy=True`` features of
  :py:func:`~rdtools.degradation.degradation_year_on_year`.  (:issue:`394`)

Bug Fixes
---------
* Fixed ``usage_of_points`` calculation in :py:func:`~rdtools.degradation.degradation_year_on_year`
  to properly handle ``multi_yoy=True`` mode with overlapping slopes.  (:issue:`394`)
* In :py:func:`~rdtools.degradation.degradation_year_on_year`,
  ``calc_info['usage_of_points']`` no longer contains ``NaN`` for points that
  do not participate in any YoY slope; those entries are now filled with ``0``
  to be consistent with the documented meaning of "0: point is never used." (:issue:`394`)

Maintenance
-----------
* Added ``_avg_timestamp_old_Pandas`` helper function for pandas <2.0 compatibility
  when calculating center labels.
* Fixed nbval workflow command syntax (``--sanitize-with`` to ``--nbval-sanitize-with``).
* Improved pandas 3.0 compatibility with datetime resolution handling.
* Updated ``docs/notebook_requirements.txt`` to require ``numexpr>=2.10.2`` and
  ``tabulate>=0.9.0`` to satisfy pandas' optional dependency minimum versions and
  avoid related warnings/errors.
* Removed trailing semicolons in example notebooks.
* Added ``.coverage.*`` pattern to ``.gitignore``.
* Updated the download URL for the ``pvdaq_system_4_2010-2016_subset_soil_signal.csv``
  example dataset used by the notebooks and the analysis chains tests to a
  GitHub release asset under ``NatLabRockies/rdtools``. (:pull:`513`)

Testing
-------
* Added tests for error handling paths in :py:mod:`~rdtools.analysis_chains`:
  ``filter_params`` and ``filter_params_aggregated`` setter validation,
  ``clearsky_rescale_index_mismatch``, ``poa_filter_without_poa``,
  ``tcell_filter_without_temperature``, ``hour_angle_filter_without_location``,
  ``clearsky_filter_without_poa``, and ``degradation_timeseries_plot_invalid_case``.
* Added tests for error handling paths in :py:mod:`~rdtools.degradation`:
  ``classical_decomposition`` missing/irregular data, ``year_on_year`` circular block
  validation, no valid pairs error, and ``_mk_test`` edge cases (no trend, ties,
  decreasing).
* Added test for ``multi_yoy=True`` parameter in ``degradation_year_on_year``.
* Added tests for :py:func:`~rdtools.plotting.degradation_timeseries_plot`
  covering multi-YoY duplicate index handling, and ``KeyError`` path.
* Set matplotlib backend to ``Agg`` in test ``conftest.py`` to avoid tkinter issues.


Contributors
------------
* Chris Deline (:ghuser:`cdeline`)
* Martin Springer (:ghuser:`martin-springer`)
* Michael Deceglie (:ghuser:`mdeceglie`)


References
----------
.. [1] H. Quest, C. Ballif, A. Virtuani, "Multi-Annual Year-on-Year: Minimising
   the Uncertainty in Photovoltaic System Performance Loss Rates," Progress in
   Photovoltaics: Research and Applications, vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 411-424,
   Oct. 2024. `doi:10.1002/pip.3855 <https://doi.org/10.1002/pip.3855>`_

